docs/databases.rst, before:

======================
Database Configuration
======================

pyROX supports calculations from several online databases. Molecular and atomic line opacities can be computed from the `ExoMol <https://www.exomol.com/>`_, `HITRAN <https://hitran.org/>`_, `HITEMP <https://hitran.org/hitemp/>`_, and `Kurucz <http://kurucz.harvard.edu/>`_ line lists. Collision-Induced Absorption (CIA) can be computed from the `HITRAN <https://hitran.org/cia/>`_ and `Borysow <https://hitran.org/cia/>`_ databases. 

The different formats of these databases sometimes require or allow different configuration parameters to be given to pyROX. Here, we describe some notable differences between the databases. Examples of the configuration files are available on the `GitHub page <https://github.com/samderegt/pyROX/blob/main/examples/>`_.

Downloading
-----------
pyROX can automatically download (most) required data files from the online databases. The ``urls`` list in the configuration file should contain the following urls:

 - **ExoMol**: The line list's definition file (``*.def.json``) should be given in the ``urls`` list. The ``.def.json``-file contains information to download the line list's states, transitions, and partition function files (``.states``, ``.trans``, ``.pf``). Adding the broadening files (``*.broad``) to the ``urls`` list is optional, but recommended for ExoMol line lists (if available). 
 - **HITRAN/HITEMP**: The partition function file (``q*.txt``) should be given in the ``urls`` list. You can find the url of the respective isotopologue on the `HITRAN website <https://hitran.org/docs/iso-meta/>`_ under "Documentation" > "Isotopologues". We also recommend adding ExoMol's ``.broad``-files to the ``urls`` list. The ``.par``-file contains all transitions and should be downloaded as well. However, it requires a login, so we recommend downloading this manually from the `HITRAN/HITEMP website <https://hitran.org/>`_ using your account login. 
 - **Kurucz**: For Kurucz line lists, pyROX can automatically download the transitions (``*.pos``) and states (``*.tsv``, from `NIST <https://physics.nist.gov/PhysRefData/ASD/levels_form.html>`_) files. Providing the ``species`` name is sufficient to download the required files.
 - **CIA_HITRAN**: ...
 - **CIA_Borysow**: ...

Input data files
----------------
...

 - **ExoMol**: .trans(.bz2), .states(.bz2), .pf
 - **HITRAN/HITEMP**: .par(.bz2), Q<aa>.txt
 - **Kurucz**: .pos, .tsv (NIST, used for pf)
 - **CIA_HITRAN**: ...
 - **CIA_Borysow**: ...

Pressure-broadening information
-------------------------------
...

 - **ExoMol**: J-dependent broadening (.broad diets or callable function)
 - **HITRAN/HITEMP**: can use ExoMol's .broad files, but assumes a constant coefficient
 - **Kurucz**: can use Schweitzer et al. 1996 for alkalis, otherwise uses Sharp & Burrows 2007 (can give polarisability alpha/C)?

Commit message:

Configuration per database with input-data structure explained

docs/databases.rst, after:

==========================
Configuration per Database
==========================

pyROX supports calculations from several online databases. Molecular and atomic line opacities can be computed from the `ExoMol <https://www.exomol.com/>`_, `HITRAN <https://hitran.org/>`_, `HITEMP <https://hitran.org/hitemp/>`_, and `Kurucz <http://kurucz.harvard.edu/>`_ line lists. Collision-Induced Absorption (CIA) can be computed from the `HITRAN <https://hitran.org/cia/>`_ and `Borysow <>`_ databases. 

The different formats of these databases sometimes require or allow different configuration parameters to be given to pyROX. Here, we describe some notable differences between the databases. Examples of the configuration files are available on the `GitHub page <https://github.com/samderegt/pyROX/blob/main/examples/>`_.

Downloading
-----------
pyROX can automatically download (most) required data files from the online databases. The ``urls`` list in the configuration file should contain the following urls:

 - **ExoMol**: The line list's definition file (``*.def.json``) should be given in the ``urls`` list. The ``.def.json``-file contains information to download the line list's states, transitions, and partition function files (``.states``, ``.trans``, ``.pf``). Adding the broadening files (``*.broad``) to the ``urls`` list is optional, but recommended for ExoMol line lists (if available). 
 - **HITRAN/HITEMP**: The partition function file (``q*.txt``) should be given in the ``urls`` list. You can find the url of the respective isotopologue on the `HITRAN website <https://hitran.org/docs/iso-meta/>`_ under "Documentation" > "Isotopologues". We also recommend adding ExoMol's ``.broad``-files to the ``urls`` list. The ``.par``-file contains all transitions and should be downloaded as well. However, it requires a login, so we recommend downloading this manually from the `HITRAN/HITEMP website <https://hitran.org/>`_ using your account login. 
 - **Kurucz**: If the ``species`` name is provided, pyROX can automatically download the transitions (``gf*.pos``) and states (``*.tsv``, from `NIST <https://physics.nist.gov/PhysRefData/ASD/levels_form.html>`_) files.
 - **CIA_HITRAN/CIA_Borysow**: For the CIA calculations, you should specify the exact urls from the `HITRAN website <https://hitran.org/cia/>`_ or Aleksandra `Borysow's website <https://www.astro.ku.dk/~aborysow/programs/index.html>`_.

Input data files
----------------
pyROX should be run with a ``files`` dictionary pointing to the downloaded input data in the ``input_data_dir`` directory. The following files are required for each database:

 - **ExoMol**: 
   - ``transitions`` (*list* or *str*): Line transitions in ``*.trans``-file (or compressed as ``bz2``).
   - ``states`` (*str*): State energies in ``*.states``-file (or compressed as ``bz2``).
   - ``partition_function`` (*str*): Partition function in ``*.pf``-file.
 - **HITRAN/HITEMP**: 
   - ``transitions`` (*list* or *str*): Line transitions in ``*.par``-file (or compressed as ``bz2``).
   - ``partition_function`` (*str*): Partition function in ``q*.txt``-file.
 - **Kurucz**: 
   - ``transitions`` (*str*): Line transitions in ``gf*.pos``-file.
   - ``states`` (*str*): ``*.tsv``-file (from NIST), which is used for calculating the partition function.
 - **CIA_HITRAN/CIA_Borysow**: 
   - ``cia`` (*list of tuples* or *list of strings*): If list of tuples, the expected structure is (``cia_file``, ``temperature_mask``, ``wavenumber_mask``). If list of strings, only filenames are expected. 

Pressure-broadening information
-------------------------------
...

 - **ExoMol**: J-dependent broadening (.broad diets or callable function)
 - **HITRAN/HITEMP**: can use ExoMol's .broad files, but assumes a constant coefficient
 - **Kurucz**: can use Schweitzer et al. 1996 for alkalis, otherwise uses Sharp & Burrows 2007 (can give polarisability alpha/C)?
